[Doc Feature][Set up CI/CD pipelines][3714448] (#10621)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/toolkit/use-CICD-template.md

After you've completed the prerequisites, let's set up a pipeline with GitHub or Azure repository.

#### Set up pipeline with GitHub

To set up the pipeline with GitHub, follow these steps:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.

1. Create a `cd.yml` file in your project under `.github/workflows` folder and add the following code in the file:

    ```yaml
    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - main
    jobs:
      build:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        env:
          TEAMSAPP_CLI_VERSION: "3.0.0"
          # Add extra environment variables here so that teamsapp cli can use them.
    
        steps:
          - name: "Checkout GitHub Action"
            uses: actions/checkout@master
    
          - name: Setup Node 20.x
            uses: actions/setup-node@v1
            with:
              node-version: "20.x"
    
          - name: install cli
            run: |
              npm install @microsoft/teamsapp-cli@${{env.TEAMSAPP_CLI_VERSION}}
    
          - name: Login Azure by service principal
            run: |

>               npx teamsapp account login azure --username ${{vars.AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID}}  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              npx teamsapp auth login azure --username ${{vars.AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID}}  \
```

Author: Updated.

1. Run the pipeline.

    Push code to the repo to trigger pipeline.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You don't need to commit env files under env folder to the repo. The env variables required for executing the CI/CD pipeline are already set in the repo variables.

    After the pipeline executes successfully, the log displays that the code is deployed to Azure and the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/artifact.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.":::

#### Set up pipeline with Azure DevOps

To set up the pipeline with Azure DevOps, follow these steps:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.

1. Create a `cd.yml` file in your project and add the following code in the file:

    ```yaml
    trigger:
      - main
    
    pool:
      vmImage: ubuntu-latest
    
    variables:
      TEAMSAPP_CLI_VERSION: 3.0.0
    
    steps:
      - task: NodeTool@0
        inputs:
          versionSpec: "20"
          checkLatest: true
    
      - script: |
          npm install @microsoft/teamsapp-cli@$(TEAMSAPP_CLI_VERSION)
        displayName: "Install CLI"
    
      - script: |

>           npx teamsapp account login azure --username $(AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID) --service-principal true --tenant $(AZURE_TENANT_ID) --password $(AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET) --interactive false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          npx teamsapp auth login azure --username $(AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID) --service-principal true --tenant $(AZURE_TENANT_ID) --password $(AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET) --interactive false
```

Reviewer: Hi @v-bvishnu , please help resolve above 2 comments, thanks!

Author: Updated.

| Ensure that you've a service principal and its access policies on resources are properly configured. Set up a service principal as follows:| • [Create service principal using Entra portal](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal). <br> • [Create service principal using Azure CLI](/cli/azure/azure-cli-sp-tutorial-1?tabs=bash). <br> • The `Teamsapp` command-line interface (CLI) supports Azure login with a service principal secret. [Create a secret](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal) and save the client ID, client secret, and tenant ID of the service principal. <br> :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/service-principal.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the service principal secret.":::|

After you've completed the prerequisites, let's set up a pipeline:

* [Set up pipeline with GitHub](#set-up-pipeline-with-github).

* [Set up pipeline with Azure DevOps](#set-up-pipeline-with-azure-devops).

### Set up pipeline with GitHub

To set up the pipeline with GitHub, follow these steps:

> 1. Open Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
It doesn't need to be VScode. Any IDE will suffice.

Author: Since the article refers to Visual Studio Code (VSC) and explains the steps involved, it would be incorrect to remove the ‘Open Visual Studio Code’ step from the procedure.

    * Go to the `teamsapp.yml` file. In the `deploy` stage, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teamsappyml.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the bot Azure app service resource ID in teamsapp.yml file.":::

    * Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. The values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams app ID in manifest file.":::

1. In the GitHub, navigate to your repository’s **Settings** and select **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.

    Update the variable keys that you've gathered for the following variables:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_TENANT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.

>     * `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID`

Reviewer: Do you think there's a good way to express that these few variables are just an example? To prevent users to think that these variables are needed for all project templates.

    * `TEAMS_APP_ID`.

    Add the variables defined in your repo directly into your yml file, excluding the following three variables:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_TENANT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/modification.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the modified pipeline yml.":::

1. Run the pipeline.

    Push code to the repo to trigger pipeline.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You don't need to commit env files under env folder to the repo. The env variables required for executing the CI/CD pipeline are already set in the repo variables.

    After the pipeline executes successfully, the log displays that the code is deployed to Azure and the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/artifact.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.":::

### Set up pipeline with Azure DevOps

To set up the pipeline with Azure DevOps, follow these steps:

> 1. Open Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  * For Azure pipeline, see how to [create an Azure Resource Manager service connection that uses workload identity federation](/azure/devops/pipelines/library/connect-to-azure#create-an-azure-resource-manager-service-connection-that-uses-workload-identity-federation).

* Secret: The TeamsApp CLI currently supports sign-in using a service principal with a secret. For more information, see how to [create a new client secret](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal).

## Generate the Teams appPackage

To distribute your Teams app, the `appPackage` is required. You can automatically create the `appPackage.zip` using the `teamsapp package` command in `Teamsapp` CLI. If you're unable to use `Teamsapp` CLI, follow these steps to manually create the appPackage:

1. Prepare a `appPackage` folder.
1. Place the `manifest.json` file in the `appPackage` folder. The default `manifest.json` file in the Teams Toolkit project contains placeholders, denoted by ${{}}. Replace these placeholders with the correct values.
1. Place your app icons in the `appPackage` folder. To prepare your app icon, see [app icons](../concepts/build-and-test/apps-package.md#app-icons).

> 1. Zip the `appPackage` folder into `appPackage.zip`.

Reviewer 2: Zip the files in the folder, not zip the folder.
If there is a folder in the zip app package, Teams will return an error when install the app.

Author: Updated.

            run: |
              npx teamsapp deploy --ignore-env-file true \
              --interactive false
    
          - name: Package app
            run: |
              npx teamsapp package
    
          - name: upload appPackage
            uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
            with:
              name: artifact
              path: appPackage/build/appPackage.zip
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The default pipeline triggers when push events occur on the main branch. You've the option to modify it to suit your specific requirements.

1. Go to GitHub.

1. Locate the following variables and secrets:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`. [Need info.]

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/repo-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the repo settings.":::

      > [!NOTE]
      > The `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET` variable must be set as secret.
      > Utilize the [GitHub environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment#environment-variables) to use different sets of variables.

>     * `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID`: Go to the `teamsapp.yml` file. In the `deploy` stage, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Go to the `teamsapp.yml` file. In the `deploy` stage, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.
   
   Below is an example of teamsapp.yml, the "BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID" needs to be set in the repo variable.
```

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teamsappyml.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the bot Azure app service resource ID in teamsapp.yml file.":::

>     * `TEAMS_APP_ID`: Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. Go to `id`, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. The values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.
    
    Below is an example of manifest.json snippet, the "TEAMS_APP_ID" needs to be set in the repo variable.
```

>       :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams app ID in manifest file.":::

Reviewer: This image is not shown in review site.
![image](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/assets/25220706/f40bda70-57b9-4b1c-b388-9d21612aadd3)

Author: Updated.

1. In the GitHub, navigate to your repository’s **Settings** and select **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.

>     Update the variable keys that you've gathered for the following variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the above example, you need to set the following variables.
```

Reviewer: Hi @v-bvishnu , please help update this too, thanks!

Author: We're informing the user to perform all the steps at the starting of the section:
to set up the pipeline with GitHub, follow these steps
. Hence, need not to mention the user saying that "
For the above example, you need to set the following variables. For your own project, please follow above steps to collect the needed variables."

        displayName: "Login Azure by service principal"
    
      - script: |
          npx teamsapp deploy --ignore-env-file true --interactive false
        displayName: "Deploy to Azure"
        workingDirectory: $(System.DefaultWorkingDirectory)
    
      - script: |
          npx teamsapp package
        displayName: "Package app"
        workingDirectory: $(System.DefaultWorkingDirectory)
    
      - publish: $(System.DefaultWorkingDirectory)/appPackage/build/appPackage.zip
        artifact: artifact
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The default pipeline triggers when push events occur on the main branch. You can modify it to meet your specific requirements.

1. Push the code to the repo.

1. Setup Azure pipeline.

    After you push your code to the repo, navigate to **Pipelines** and select **New pipeline**. Select your repo and the existing yml file to configure your pipeline.

1. Locate the following variables and secrets:

    The following variables and secrets are needed for the pipeline:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.

>     * `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID`: Go to the `teamsapp.yml` file. In the `deploy` stage, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Go to the `teamsapp.yml` file. In the `deploy` stage, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.
   
   Below is an example of teamsapp.yml, the "BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID" needs to be set in the repo variable.
```

Author: Updated.

      :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teamsappyml.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the bot Azure app service resource ID in teamsapp.yml file.":::

>     * `TEAMS_APP_ID`: Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. Go to `id`, the values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. The values enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the `.env` folder.
    
    Below is an example of manifest.json snippet, the "TEAMS_APP_ID" needs to be set in the repo variable.
```

Author: Updated.

      ::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams app ID in manifest file.":::

>     You need to set the following key name variables in the repo:

Reviewer: For the above example, you need to set the following variables.

>     You need to set the following key name variables in the repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For the above example, you need to set the following variables:
```

|Azure Functions |[Azure/functions-action](https://github.com/Azure/functions-action) |[AzureFunctionApp@2](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/azure-function-app-v2) |
|Azure Static Web Apps |[Azure/static-web-apps-deploy](https://github.com/Azure/static-web-apps-deploy)|[AzureStaticWebApp@0](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/azure-static-web-app-v0) |

#### Credential needed for login to Azure

When you deploy app code to Azure App Service, Azure Functions, or Azure Container App through CI/CD, you need a service principal for Azure login. You can log in to Azure using a service principal in two ways:

* OpenID Connect (OIDC):

  * For GitHub action, see how to [use the Azure login action with OpenID Connect](/azure/developer/github/connect-from-azure#use-the-azure-login-action-with-openid-connect).

  * For Azure pipeline, see how to [create an Azure Resource Manager service connection that uses workload identity federation](/azure/devops/pipelines/library/connect-to-azure#create-an-azure-resource-manager-service-connection-that-uses-workload-identity-federation).

> * Secret: The TeamsApp CLI currently supports sign-in using a service principal with a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Secret: The TeamsApp CLI currently supports sign-in using a service principal with a secret. Please see how to create a [new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-client-secret)
```

Author: Updated.

    > [!NOTE]
    > For security purposes, select the **Keep this value secret** checkbox if it's necessary.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/secret.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the keep this value secret in new variable page.":::

1. Run the pipeline.

    Push code to the repo to trigger pipeline.

    > [!NOTE]
    > There's no need to commit env files under env/ folder to the repo. The env variables required for executing the CI/CD pipeline are already established in the pipeline variables.

    After the pipeline executes successfully, the log displays that the code is deployed to Azure and the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/published.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the pipeline runs successfully.":::

## Set up CI/CD pipelines using your own workflow

If the Teams App CLI doesn't meet your pipeline requirements, you can develop a custom deployment process that suits your needs. This section provides guidance on deploying to Azure with custom methods. If you're using a different cloud platform, refer to this section for guidance.

> [!NOTE]

> > If you already have a complete CI/CD pipeline for deploying to your Azure resource, and your Teams app needs to read environment variables during runtime, configure these environment variables in the settings of your Azure resource. For testing post-deployment, see [generate the appPackage for the teams app](#generate-the-apppackage-for-the-teams-app).

Reviewer 2: 'For testing post-deployment' 
Suggest to change to 'post-deployment testing', because this is a way of test after the deploy.

|Azure Static Web Apps |[Azure/static-web-apps-deploy](https://github.com/Azure/static-web-apps-deploy)|[AzureStaticWebApp@0](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/azure-static-web-app-v0) |

### Credential needed for login to Azure

When deploying app code to Azure App Service, Azure Functions, or Azure Container App through CI/CD, a service principal is required for Azure login. Two methods exist for Azure login using a service principal:

* OpenID Connect (OIDC).
* secret.

The TeamsApp CLI currently supports sign-in using a service principal with a secret. If you wish to use OIDC, follow these steps:

* For GitHub action, see how to [Use the Azure login action with OpenID Connect](/azure/developer/github/connect-from-azure#use-the-azure-login-action-with-openid-connect).

* For Azure pipeline, see how to [Create an Azure Resource Manager service connection that uses workload identity federation](/azure/devops/pipelines/library/connect-to-azure#create-an-azure-resource-manager-service-connection-that-uses-workload-identity-federation).

> ## Generate the appPackage for the teams app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate the appPackage for the teams app
```

Author: Updated.

# Set up CI/CD pipelines

You can set up a Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline for Microsoft Teams apps created with the Teams Toolkit. A Teams app CI/CD pipeline typically consists of three parts:

1. Build the project.
1. Deploy the project to cloud resources.
1. Generating the Teams app package.

> [!NOTE]
> To create a pipeline for a Teams app, it's required to prepare the necessary cloud resources, such as Azure Web App, Azure Functions, or Azure Static Web App, and configure the app settings.

> ## Build the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Updated.

> To build the project, it is necessary to compile the source code and create the required deployment artifacts:

Reviewer: ```
Building the project involves compiling the source code and creating the necessary artifacts for deployment. For the deployment process, it is recommended to use the Teams Toolkit CLI. For more information, please refer to [Set up CI/CD pipelines with Teams Toolkit CLI](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-with-teams-toolkit-cli). If you prefer not to use the Teams Toolkit CLI for deployment or would like to customize your pipeline, you can refer to [Set up CI/CD pipelines using your own workflow](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-using-your-own-workflow). The final step, generating the Teams app package, helps you test your Teams app after deployment by [distributing your app](../concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-publish-overview.md).
```
I prefer rewriting this "Build the project" section as above, which is the original version. @JerryYangKai  what is your suggestion?

Author: Updated as:

To build the project, you must compile the source code and create the required deployment artifacts. There are two methods to deploy the artifatcs:

* [Set up CI/CD pipelines with Teams Toolkit CLI](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-with-teams-toolkit-cli). *[Recommended]*

* [Set up CI/CD pipelines using your own workflow](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-using-your-own-workflow). *[Optional]*

* It's recommended to use the Teams Toolkit CLI for the deployment process through [set up CI/CD pipelines with Teams Toolkit CLI](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-with-teams-toolkit-cli).

* If you opt not to use the Teams Toolkit CLI for deployment or wish to customize your pipeline through [set up CI/CD pipelines using your own workflow](#set-up-cicd-pipelines-using-your-own-workflow).

* Create the Teams app package enables you to evaluate your Teams app post-deployment through [distribute your Microsoft Teams app](../concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-publish-overview.md).

### Set up CI/CD pipelines with Teams Toolkit CLI

You can use [Teams Toolkit command line interface](Teams-Toolkit-CLI.md) to automate the following procedures:

> 1. Build and deploy code to Microsoft Entra.

Author: Updated.

1. Create a Teams app appPackage, which is used for [distribute your Microsoft Teams app](../concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-publish-overview.md).

> [!NOTE]
> To create a project, use Teams Toolkit version 5.6.0 or a later version.

#### Prerequisites

1. Set up required resources for your Teams app, You've two options to set up the resources such as Teams app ID, bot ID, and others:

    1. You can either manually extract these details from the manifest file under the `appPackage`  folder.
    1. You can run the `Provision` command in Teams Toolkit to generate them automatically.

1. To configure Azure resources, you've two options:

    1. You can manually prepare these resources by examining the bicep files under the infra folder.
    1. You can run the `Provision` command in Teams Toolkit to prepare these Azure resources automatically.

1. Set up a service principal. Ensure that you've a service principal and its access policies on resources are properly configured. For more information, see

>     * [create service principal using Entra portal](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [create service principal using Entra portal](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal).
```

Author: Updated.

>     * [create service principal using Entra CLI](/cli/azure/azure-cli-sp-tutorial-1?tabs=bash).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [create service principal using Azure CLI](/cli/azure/azure-cli-sp-tutorial-1?tabs=bash).
```

Author: Updated.

    The Teamsapp command-line interface (CLI) supports Azure login with a service principal secret. To proceed, [create a secret](/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal) and save the client ID, client secret, and tenant ID of the service principal:

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/service-principal.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the service principal secret.":::

1. Prepare a GitHub or Azure repository.

#### Set up pipeline with GitHub

To set up the pipeline with GitHub, follow these steps:

1. Create a `cd.yml` file in your project under `.github/workflows` folder and add the following code in the file:

    ```yaml
    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - main
    jobs:
      build:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        env:
          TEAMSAPP_CLI_VERSION: "3.0.0"
          # Add extra environment variables here so that teamsapp cli can use them.
    
        steps:

>           - name: "Checkout Github Action"

Author: Updated.

    The following image shows the `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID` in `teamsapp.yml` file:

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teamsappyml.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the bot Azure app service resource id in teamsapp.yml file.":::

    * Go to the `appPackage/manifest.json` file. The placeholders enclosed in `${{}}` are the required variable keys. If you've used the `provision` command from Teams Toolkit, you can locate the values in the environment files in the env folder.

    The following image shows the `TEAMS_APP_ID` in `manifest.json` file:

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams app ID in manifest file.":::

    You need to set the following key name variables in the repo:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_TENANT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.
    * `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID`.
    * `TEAMS_APP_ID`.

>     Go to github. To set variables or secrets, navigate to your repository’s **Settings**, then select **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.

Author: Updated.

    You need to add the variables defined in your repo directly into your yml file, excluding the following three variables:

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_TENANT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/modification.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the modified pipeline yml.":::

1. Run the pipeline.

    Push code to the repo to trigger pipeline.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You don't need to commit env files under env folder to the repo. The env variables required for executing the CI/CD pipeline are already set in the repo variables.

    After the pipeline executes successfully, the log displays that the code is deployed to Azure and the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/artifact.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.":::

#### Set up pipeline with Azure DevOps

> 1. Create a `cd.yml` file in your project under `.github/workflows` folder and add the following code in the file:

Author: Updated.

    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_TENANT_ID`.
    * `AZURE_SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.
    * `BOT_AZURE_APP_SERVICE_RESOURCE_ID`.
    * `TEAMS_APP_ID`.

    To set variables in your pipeline, go to your pipeline and select Edit > Variables.

    > [!NOTE]
    > For security purposes, select the **Keep this value secret** checkbox if it's necessary.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/secret.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the keep this value secret in new variable page.":::

1. Run the pipeline.

    Push code to the repo to trigger pipeline.

    > [!NOTE]
    > There's no need to commit env files under env/ folder to the repo. The env variables required for executing the CI/CD pipeline are already established in the pipeline variables.

    After the pipeline executes successfully, the log displays that the code is deployed to Azure and the appPackage is generated in the artifacts.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/published.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the pipeline runs successfully.":::

### Set up CI/CD pipelines using your own workflow

> If the Teams App CLI doesn't meet your pipeline requirements, you can develop a custom deployment process that suits your needs. This section provides guidance on deploying to Azure with custom methods. If you're using a different cloud platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Teams App CLI doesn't meet your pipeline requirements, you can develop a custom deployment process that suits your needs. This section provides guidance on deploying to Azure with custom methods. If you're using a different cloud platform, you can also refer to this section for guidance.
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you already have a complete CI/CD pipeline for deploying to your Azure resource, and your Teams app needs to read environment variables during runtime, configure these environment variables in the settings of your Azure resource. For testing post-deployment, see [generate the appPackage for the teams app](#generate-the-apppackage-for-the-teams-app).

The `teamsapp deploy` command executes the actions defined in the `deploy` stage of the `teamsapp.yml` file. The `deploy` stage consists of `build` and `deploy` actions. To create a custom deployment method, rewrite these actions based on your specific requirements and preferences.

> A basic bot TypeScript project as an example, the deploy stage in its `teamsapp.yml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking a basic bot TypeScript project as an example, the deploy stage in its `teamsapp.yml` is as follows:
```

Author: Updated as "As an example, a basic bot TypeScript project has the following deploy stage in its `teamsapp.yml`:"
